Docs: AWS Lambda (#6810)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/guides/traffic_management/destination_types/aws_lambda/_index.md

## Before you begin

* The following steps require you to use the access key and secret key for your AWS account. Ensure that the credentials for your AWS account have appropriate permissions to interact with AWS Lambda. For more information, see the [AWS credentials documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html).
* To use the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting, [install Gloo Edge Enterprise version 1.12.0 or later in a Kubernetes cluster]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/gateway/kubernetes/" %}}) or [upgrade your existing Enterprise installation to version 1.12.0 or later]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/upgrade_steps/" %}}).

## Step 1: Create an AWS Lambda

Create an AWS Lambda function to test with Gloo Edge routing.

1. Log into the AWS console and navigate to the Lambda page.
   

> 2. Note of your region, which is used when configuring AWS credentials in subsequent steps.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Note your region, which is used when configuring AWS credentials in subsequent steps.
```

3. Click the **Create Function** button.

4. Name the function `echo` and select `Node.js 16.x` for the runtime.

5. Replace the default contents of `index.js` with the following Node.js Lambda, which returns a response body that contains exactly what was sent to the function in the request body.
   ```js
   exports.handler = async (event) => {
       return event;
   };
   ```

## Step 2: Create an AWS credentials secret

> Create a Kubernetes secret that contains the AWS access key and secret key so that Gloo Edge can connect to AWS Lambda for service discovery.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a Kubernetes secret that contains your AWS access key and secret key. Gloo Edge uses this secret to connect to AWS Lambda for service discovery.
```

       --aws-secret-namespace 'gloo-system'
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

2. Verify that Gloo Edge can access AWS Lambda via your AWS credentials. In the `spec.aws.lambdaFunctions` section of the output, verify that the `echo` Lambda function is listed.
   ```sh
   kubectl get upstream -n gloo-system aws-upstream -o yaml
   ```

3. Create a VirtualService resource containing a `routeAction` that points to the AWS Lambda upstream. In the `destinationSpec.aws` section, include one of the following settings. Note that only one setting should be configured. If you configure both, the `unwrapAsAlb` setting is used by default.
   * `unwrapAsAlb: true`: Replace the functionality of an AWS ALB.
   * `unwrapAsApiGateway: true` (Gloo Edge Enterprise only, version 1.12.0 or later): Replace the functionality of an AWS API Gateway.
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: aws-route
     namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
       - '*'
       routes:
       - matchers:
         - exact: /
         routeAction:
           single:
             destinationSpec:
               aws:

>                  logicalName: echo
>                  unwrapAsApiGateway: true

Author: ```suggestion
                 logicalName: echo
                 # Configure only ONE setting
                 # Replace AWS ALB functionality
                 # unwrapAsAlb: true
                 # Replace AWS API gateway functionality. Gloo Edge Enterprise v1.12.0+ required
                 # unwrapAsApiGateway: true
```

description: Routing to AWS Lambda as an Upstream
---

Route traffic requests directly to an [Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda function](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/resources/).

## About

Gloo Edge enables you to route traffic requests directly to your AWS Lambda functions. To also use Gloo Edge in place of your AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway, you can configure the `unwrapAsAlb` setting or the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting (Gloo Edge Enterprise only, version 1.12.0 or later) in the [AWS `destinationSpec`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/aws/aws.proto.sk/" %}}) of the route to your Lambda upstream. These settings allow Gloo Edge to manipulate a response from an upstream Lambda in the same way as an AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway.

> Note that to use the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting, your Lambda function must be capable of returning a response in the form that is required by an AWS API Gateway. Gloo Edge looks for a JSON response from the Lambda upstream that contains the following specific fields:

Reviewer: How would you feel about moving this block to a separate section later on that discusses the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting? Like the page would generally focus on configuring a lambda upstream, and then at the end we can call out the usage of this specific setting

Reviewer: Reevaluating after seeing how this guide progresses. Honestly I'm feeling pretty good about it. Kind of wrestling with whether it makes sense for this block to come before or after `## Step 3: Create an upstream and virtual service` but otherwise I don't think we need any restructuring

description: Routing to AWS Lambda as an Upstream
---

Route traffic requests directly to an [Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda function](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/resources/).

## About

> Gloo Edge enables you to route traffic requests directly to your AWS Lambda functions, in place of an AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway.

Reviewer: Nit: This is true, but also you can just route traffic requests directly to lambda functions without needing to replace anything. I think maybe I'd just prefer `Gloo Edge enables you to route traffic requests directly to your AWS Lambda functions.` but I don't feel super strongly about it

description: Routing to AWS Lambda as an Upstream
---

Route traffic requests directly to an [Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda function](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/resources/).

## About

> Gloo Edge enables you to route traffic requests directly to your AWS Lambda functions. To also use Gloo Edge in place of your AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway, you can configure the `unwrapAsAlb` setting or the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting (Gloo Edge Enterprise only, version 1.12.0 or later) in the [AWS `destinationSpec`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/aws/aws.proto.sk/" %}}) of the route to your Lambda upstream. These settings allow Gloo Edge to manipulate a response from an upstream Lambda in the same way as an AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gloo Edge enables you to route traffic requests directly to your AWS Lambda functions. To also use Gloo Edge in place of your AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway, you can configure the `unwrapAsAlb` or `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting (Gloo Edge Enterprise only, version 1.12.0 or later) in the [AWS `destinationSpec`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/aws/aws.proto.sk/" %}}) of the route to your Lambda upstream. These settings allow Gloo Edge to manipulate a response from an upstream Lambda in the same way as an AWS ALB or AWS API Gateway.
```

For more information, see the AWS Lambda documentation on [configuring Lambda functions as targets](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/lambda-functions.html).

## Set up routing to AWS Lambda

**Before you begin**: The following steps require you to use the access key and secret key for your AWS account. Ensure that the credentials for your AWS account have appropriate permissions to interact with AWS Lambda. For more information, see the [AWS credentials documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html).

### Step 1: Create an AWS Lambda

Create an AWS Lambda function to test with Gloo Edge routing.

> 1. Log into the AWS console and navigate to the Lambda page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the AWS console and navigate to the Lambda page.
```

> 2. Note your region, which is used when configuring AWS credentials in subsequent steps.

Reviewer 2: I did not see where the region is used in the credentials. but I think you need to use the region in the upstream so that Edge knows where the Lambda is?

3. Click the **Create Function** button.

4. Name the function `echo` and select `Node.js 16.x` for the runtime.

5. Replace the default contents of `index.js` with the following Node.js Lambda, which returns a response body that contains exactly what was sent to the function in the request body.
   ```js
   exports.handler = async (event) => {
       return event;
   };
   ```

### Step 2: Create an AWS credentials secret

Create a Kubernetes secret that contains your AWS access key and secret key. Gloo Edge uses this secret to connect to AWS Lambda for service discovery.

> 1. Get the access key and secret key for your AWS account. Note that your AWS credentials must have the appropriate permissions to interact with AWS Lambda.

Reviewer 2: maybe add the link to AWS again?

2. Create a Kubernetes secret that contains the AWS access key and secret key.
   ```sh
   glooctl create secret aws \
       --name 'aws-creds' \
       --namespace gloo-system \
       --access-key '$ACCESS_KEY' \
       --secret-key '$SECRET_KEY'
   ```

### Step 3: Create an upstream and virtual service

Create Gloo Edge `Upstream` and `VirtualService` resources to route requests to the Lambda function.

1. Create an upstream resource that references the Lambda secret. Update the region as needed.
   {{< tabs >}}
   {{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="shell">}}
   kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
   apiVersion: gloo.solo.io/v1
   kind: Upstream
   metadata:
     name: aws-upstream
     namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     aws:

>        region: us-east-1

Reviewer 2: maybe make this a variable

       secretRef:
         name: aws-creds
         namespace: gloo-system
   EOF
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell">}}
   glooctl create upstream aws \
       --name 'aws-upstream' \
       --namespace 'gloo-system' \
       --aws-region 'us-east-1' \
       --aws-secret-name 'aws-creds' \
       --aws-secret-namespace 'gloo-system'
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

2. Verify that Gloo Edge can access AWS Lambda via your AWS credentials. In the `spec.aws.lambdaFunctions` section of the output, verify that the `echo` Lambda function is listed.
   ```sh
   kubectl get upstream -n gloo-system aws-upstream -o yaml
   ```

> 3. Create a simple VirtualService resource containing a `routeAction` that points to the AWS Lambda upstream. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a VirtualService resource containing a `routeAction` that points to the AWS Lambda upstream. 
```

   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: aws-route
     namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
       - '*'
       routes:
       - matchers:
         - exact: /
         routeAction:
           single:
             destinationSpec:
               aws:
                 logicalName: echo
             upstream:
               name: aws-upstream
               namespace: gloo-system
   EOF
   ```

> 4. Confirm that Gloo Edge is correctly routing requests to Lambda by sending a simple curl request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Confirm that Gloo Edge is correctly routing requests to Lambda by sending a curl request.
```

   ```
   *   Trying ::1...
   * TCP_NODELAY set
   * Connected to localhost (::1) port 8080 (#0)
   > POST / HTTP/1.1
   > Host: localhost:8080
   > User-Agent: curl/7.64.1
   > Accept: */*
   > Content-Length: 116
   > Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   > 
   * upload completely sent off: 116 out of 116 bytes
   < HTTP/1.1 201 Created
   < test-header-key: test-header-value
   < content-length: 32
   < date: Mon, 25 Jul 2022 13:37:05 GMT
   < server: envoy
   < 
   * Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
   gloo edge is inserting this body* Closing connection 0
   ```

### AWS API Gateway (Enterprise v1.12.0+ only)

Unwrap the JSON response from the function in the same way as an AWS API Gateway.

Note that to use the `unwrapAsApiGateway` setting, your Lambda function must be capable of returning a response in the form that is required by an AWS API Gateway. Gloo Edge looks for a JSON response from the Lambda upstream that contains the following specific fields:
- `body`: String containing the desired response body.
- `headers`: JSON object containing a mapping from the desired response header keys to the desired response header values.

> - `multiValueHeaders`: JSON object containing a mapping from the desired response header keys to a list of the desired response header values to be mapped to that header key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `multiValueHeaders`: JSON object containing a mapping from the desired response header keys to a list of the desired response header values that you want to map to a header key.
```

1. Edit the VirtualService resource that you created in the previous section to add the `destinationSpec.aws.unwrapAsApiGateway: true` setting.
   ```bash
   kubectl edit virtualservices.gateway.solo.io -n gloo-system aws-route
   ```
   {{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=5-7" >}}
   ...
         routeAction:
           single:
             destinationSpec:
               aws:
                 logicalName: echo
                 unwrapAsApiGateway: true
             upstream:
               name: aws-upstream
               namespace: gloo-system
   {{< / highlight >}}

2. Verify that Gloo Edge correctly routes traffic requests to the Lambda function and unwraps the response from the function.
   ```sh
   curl $(glooctl proxy url)/ -d '{"body": "gloo edge is inserting this body", "headers": {"test-header-key": "test-header-value"}, "statusCode": 201}' -X POST -v
   ```
   A successful response contains the same body string, response headers, and status code that you provided in the curl command, such as the following:

>    ```

Reviewer 2: I think the response must look differently as we expect them to return this specific format. so this I think will be reflected in the response as well.

Author: Yeah, I asked Ben in slack, and he said he didnt actually see a test for this, and playing with the unwrapAsAlb setting output looked pretty similar to the api gateway functionality

Reviewer: Yeah I really don't have an understanding of how the ALB functionality is supposed to work -- to be honest it seems quite similar to the API gateway functionality. I think for now we might best off just removing that section and leaving the unwrap as API Gateway section
